Add Performance Monitoring (#887)
kmesh-net/kmesh: docs/proposal/performance_monitoring.md

---
title: proposal of Performance Monitoring
authors:
- "@skwwwwww" # Authors' GitHub accounts here.
reviewers:
- ""
- TBD
approvers:
- ""
- TBD

creation-date: 2024-09-21

---

## proposal of Kmesh observability

<!--
This is the title of your KEP. Keep it short, simple, and descriptive. A good
title can help communicate what the KEP is and should be considered as part of
any review.
-->
### Summary

<!--
This section is incredibly important for producing high-quality, user-focused
documentation such as release notes or a development roadmap.

A good summary is probably at least a paragraph in length.
-->

> The significance of performance monitoring in Kmesh as the foundation for efficient, scalable, and robust grid systems is paramount. In Kmesh, monitoring key metrics such as Kmesh_deamon activity, the number of eBPF maps, the number of entries in each map, and the duration of eBPF method executions is crucial to ensure optimal system performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The significance of performance monitoring in Kmesh as the foundation for efficient, scalable, and robust mesh systems is paramount. In Kmesh, monitoring key metrics such as Kmesh deamon activity, the number of eBPF maps, the number of entries in each map, and the duration of eBPF method execution is crucial to ensure optimal system performance.
```

> In this proposal, I will analyze the performance monitoring metrics of Kmesh. I will also suggest the implementation of enhanced observability features within Kmesh to capture these critical performance indicators. This will allow users to seamlessly monitor Kmesh's performance and ensure system efficiency.

Reviewer 2: Does this proposal consider control plane monitoring, like record the time used to handle xds response

Author: Currently, only the monitoring of kmesh resource usage,eBPF map-related metrics, and the execution time of eBPF functions have been considered.

### Proposal

> Kmesh needs to collect metrics through the kernel and pass them on to the user mode. In the user mode, The data related to eBPF maps and operation duration can ultimately be queried through Prometheus and visualized using Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kmesh needs to collect metrics through the kernel and pass them on to the user mode. In the user mode, the data related to eBPF maps and operation duration can ultimately be queried through Prometheus and visualized using Grafana.
```

#### Design Details

##### metrics related operation duration

This is because Kmesh needs to get metrics from the kernel and sent them to the user mode. We need a bpf map to record the metrics, as a vehicle for transferring.

So we need to define a bpf map that contains all the required metrics:

```
struct operation_usage_data {
    __u64 start_time;
    __u64 end_time;

>     __u32 operation_type;

Reviewer 2: What is operation_type? And why it is in both key and value

Author: Operation_type refers to a function, such as sock_traffic_control. 
![sock_traffic_control](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d9538b8c-8f4b-419e-9a08-0c86e81f7436)

};

struct operation_usage_key {

>     __u32 tid;

Reviewer 2: is this pid?

Reviewer 2: how can we map it to a pod

Author: The tid is the unique identifier of a thread obtained through bpf_get_current_pid_tgid().

A unique kmesh-daemon runs on each node, and kmesh collects data from different nodes, allowing the data to be associated with the respective pods.

    __u32 operation_type;
};

struct {
    __uint(type, BPF_MAP_TYPE_HASH);
    __type(key, struct operation_usage_key);
    __type(value, struct operation_usage_data);
    __uint(max_entries, 1024);
} performance_data_map SEC(".maps");
```

> collect the timestamps at the beginning and end of the function, and at the end of the function, write the data from the map into the ring buffer.

Reviewer 2: The map above is not a ring buffer
